KEP-1972: kubelet exec probe timeouts (#1973)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-node/1972-kubelet-exec-probe-timeouts/README.md

- [X] (R) Enhancement issue in release milestone, which links to KEP dir in [kubernetes/enhancements] (not the initial KEP PR)
- [X] (R) KEP approvers have approved the KEP status as `implementable`
- [X] (R) Design details are appropriately documented
- [X] (R) Test plan is in place, giving consideration to SIG Architecture and SIG Testing input
- [X] (R) Graduation criteria is in place
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review completed
- [ ] Production readiness review approved
- [ ] "Implementation History" section is up-to-date for milestone
- [ ] User-facing documentation has been created in [kubernetes/website], for publication to [kubernetes.io]
- [ ] Supporting documentation—e.g., additional design documents, links to mailing list discussions/SIG meetings, relevant PRs/issues, release notes

[kubernetes.io]: https://kubernetes.io/
[kubernetes/enhancements]: https://git.k8s.io/enhancements
[kubernetes/kubernetes]: https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes
[kubernetes/website]: https://git.k8s.io/website

## Summary

Kubelet today does not respect exec probe timeouts. This is considered a bug we should fix since

> the timeout value is supported in the Container Probe API. Because exec probe timeouts
> were never respected by kubelet, a new feature gate `ExecProbeTimeouts` will be introduced
> so users have an easy way to revert back if the newly introduced probe timeout results
> in unexpected behavior.

Reviewer: small nit: the feature gate is for ops. For developers addressing the issue would be an increase of a timeout. So "users" and the action these users do in this context can be clarified.

Perhaps:

```suggestion
the timeout value is supported in the Container Probe API. Because exec probe timeouts
were never respected by kubelet, a new feature gate `ExecProbeTimeouts` will be introduced. 
With this feature nodes can be configured to preserve the current behavior while the proper 
timeouts are configured for the probes.
```

Author: Updated

## Motivation

Kubelet not respecting the probe timeout is a bug and should be fixed.

### Goals

> * fix exec probe timeouts in kubelet

Reviewer: perhaps "treat exec probe timeouts as probe failures in kubelet"

Author: done

### Non-Goals

* ensuring exec processes that timed out have been killed by kubelet.

## Proposal

### Risks and Mitigations

* existing workloads on Kubernetes that relied on this bug may unexpectedly see their probes timeout

## Design Details

Changes to kubelet:
* Ensure kubelet handles timeout errors and registers them as failing probes.
* Add feature gate `ExecProbeTimeouts` that is GA and on by default.
* If the feature gate `ExecProbeTimeouts` is disabled and an exec probe timeout is reached, add warning logs to inform users that exec probes are timing out.
* Re-enable existing exec liveness probe e2e test.
* Add new exec readiness probe e2e test.

> 

Reviewer: should the new timeout error code introduction be part of this KEP? Or put it into non-goal?

Author: Added to non-goals

were never respected by kubelet, a new feature gate `ExecProbeTimeouts` will be introduced.
With this feature, nodes can be configured to preserve the current behavior while the proper
timeouts are enabled for exec probes.

## Motivation

Kubelet not respecting the probe timeout is a bug and should be fixed.

### Goals

* treat exec probe timeouts as probe failures in kubelet

### Non-Goals

* ensuring exec processes that timed out have been killed by kubelet.
* introducing CRI errors for handling scenarios such as time outs.

## Proposal

### Risks and Mitigations

* existing workloads on Kubernetes that relied on this bug may unexpectedly see their probes timeout

## Design Details

Changes to kubelet:
* Ensure kubelet handles timeout errors and registers them as failing probes.
* Add feature gate `ExecProbeTimeouts` that is GA and on by default.
* If the feature gate `ExecProbeTimeouts` is disabled and an exec probe timeout is reached, add warning logs to inform users that exec probes are timing out.
* Re-enable existing exec liveness probe e2e test.
* Add new exec readiness probe e2e test.

### Test Plan

E2E tests:

> * re-enable [existing exec liveness probe e2e test](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/ea1458550077bdf3b26ac34551a3591d280fe1f5/test/e2e/common/container_probe.go#L210-L227) that is currently being skipped

Reviewer 2: wow :/
